.TH XMASCOT 1 "10 Aug 1997" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
XMascot \- A Pretty Mascot on X Window System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmascot
[filename] [-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-\fIoption\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I XMascot 
is a program to show a pretty Mascot on your 
.B X Window System.
XMascot have these features:

.TP 10
Swing
Swing on display prettily.
.TP 10
Stretch
Chain's length become longer and shorter as you like.
.TP 10
Speak
Speeking some sounds(needs sound's file and playing command)
.TP 10
Alarm
It can caused a action on specific time.
.TP 10
BIFF
It can work as BIFF (mail checker)

.SH OPERATION
Basic Operations are...
.TP 20
on PIN window:
Left button Drag: Move position.

Right button Click: Popup menu.
.TP 20 
on Mascot window:
Left Button Click: accelerate mascot moving.

Left button Drag: Change chain's length.

Right button Click: Clicking Sound.
.TP 20
on Mail arrived maek window:
Left Button Click: Popup Mail list window.

.SH ALARM SETUP

.I XMascot
has various Alarm facility.
These alarms can set from Alarm/Chime menu.

Setup Display:

.DS
 ---a--- --b-- ----------c----------- --d---
 (*^o^*) 00:00 sound(pipipipi.au)     [TEST]
.DE

.TP 4
a.
Trigger this switch ON(Black) to valid setup.
.TP 4
b.
Time setup(24hour display hour:min ).
Only timer alarm, min:sec format.
.TP 4
c.
Setting actions.
refer ACTIONS to know detail.
.TP 4
d.
Alarm test switch.

The datas setted by this menu are save to $HOME/.xmascotrc.

.PP
About alarms:

.TP 20
.B Daily Alarm
Act on constant time on Everyday. Ther are 3.
.TP 20
.B Timer Alarm
Act some times after. Formats: min:sec
.TP 20
.B Interval Timer
Act periodic timer.
.TP 20
.B Hour Chime
Chime on every hour's 0 min.
.TP 20
.B Half-Hour Chime
Chime on everu hour's 30 min.
.TP 20
.B Biff Action
Not Alarm. for BIFF action setting.

.SH BIFF FEATURE

.I XMascot
has a feature of BIFF (mail checker)
youbin command is supported,

Normaly, XMascot check your mail spool.
It can setup to call extern command to chack mail by 
option \fB-biffcmd\fP .

Return Values of extern command:

.TP 10
1 or negative value:
Mail box is empty.
.TP 10
Zero
New mail comes.
.TP 10
2
no change state.

.PP
when calling extern command, Mail List shows that command's standard
output.

.SH OPTIONS
.I XMascot
has
.B X Toolkit
standard options and belows:

.PP
Transparent color is normally setted automatically.

.TP 20
.BI \-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP 20
.BI \-gravity " n"
Set Gravity. Unit: kg cm/s^2
.TP 20
.BI \-chainlength " n"
Set Chain length. Unit: mm
.TP 20
.BI \-damping " f"
Set damping coefficient. from 0 to 1 real value.
0: never damp. 1: never swing.
.TP 20
.BI \-degree " n"
Set starting degree (from 0 to 180 degree)
.TP 20
.BI \-menuno " n"
Set starting menu No.
.TP 20
.BI \-no " n"
Set starting Mascot No.
.TP 20
.BI \-magnify " f"
Set Mascot's Magnify.
.TP 20
.BI \-pinpat " filename"
Set Pin's graphics pattern.
.TP 20
.BI \-random
Select Mascoot random when startup.
.TP 20
.BI \-changetime " min"
Change mascot periodic.(UNIT:min)
Change random when using with -random.
.TP 20
.BI \-allmenu
ChangeMascot changing effects to all menu.
.TP 20
.BI \-chainnum " n"
Set chain's number.
.TP 20
.BI \-drawtiming " n"
Draw pattern once per n times.
.TP 20
.BI \-searchpath " search-path"
Set Mascot/Sounds data search path.
.TP 20
.BI \-chainpat " filename"
Set chain's graphics pattern.
.TP 20
.BI \-soundcmd " cmdline"
Set sounds playing command. "%s" is replaced to sound's filename.
For Exam. "cat %s > /dev/audio"
.TP 20
.BI \-soundstart " file"
Set stating sound file.
.TP 20
.BI \-soundclick " file"
Set clicking sound file.
.TP 20
.BI \-soundend " file"
Set ending sound file.
Set ending sound file.
.TP 20
.BI \-soundmail " file"
Set mail arrived sound file.
.TP 20
.BI \-nobiff
Don't use BIFF feature.
.BI \-update " sec"
Specifies the frequency to check mail's arriving.
Unit: sec. (default 30sec)
.TP 20
.BI \-noonce
Do action on every mail arriving.
(on default, Only a action when first mail comes.)
.TP 20
.BI \-biffcmd " cmd"
Set mail checing command.
.TP 20
.BI \-biffpat " fname"
Set mail coming mark graphics pattern.
.TP 20
.BI \-biffpos " str"
Set which position mail mark display. on Mascot's (left,center,right)
.TP 20
.BI \-nobifflists
Don't show arrived mail list.
.TP 20
.BI \-biffgeometry " geom"
Set Mail List's geometry.
.TP 20
.BI \-bifffilter " cmd"
Set Filter command that invoked before disp Mail's List.
.TP 20
.BI \-popdowntime " sec"
Set popuping time of Mail's list.
Negative value: never popdown automatic.
.TP 20
.BI \-noyoubin
Don't use YOUBIN command.
.TP 20
.BI \-server " host"
Set YOUBIN servername.
.TP 20
.BI \-shadow " n"
Set shadow width.
.TP 20
.BI \-noshadow
Don't disp shadow.

.SH ACTIONS

.I XMascot
has meny actions that are caused by alarm and BIFF.

This is from .B X Toolkit 's actions feature.
So actions can bind to keyboard and mouse.

.PP
translation name:

.TP 15
on PIn's window
XMascot.translations: #override
.TP 15
on Mascot's window
XMascot.mascot_base.translations: #override

.PP
Ex.:
.DS
 XMascot.translations: #override \\
   <Btn2Up>: chg_next() snd_click()\\n\\
   Shift<Key>R: chg_random() snd_click()
.DE

On this example,As click on PIN winndow,
Mascot changes to next mascot on menu and play starting-sound.
and input Shift-R caused Changing mascot random and play clicking sound.

Please refer Xtoolkit's manual about actions.

.PP
To use actions by Alarm, input actions in Alarm dialogs.
This setup are saved to $HOME/.xmascotrc .

.PP
Action's List.

.TP 8
.B quit
Terminate program.
.TP 8
.B change(\fInum\fP)
Change mascot to No \fInum\fP .
.TP 8
.B chg_file(\fIfname[,title]\fP)
read file \fIfname\fP as Mascot.
.TP 8
.B chg_next
Change mascot to next entry of menu.
.TP 8
.B chg_next_all
Change mascot to netxt entry with all menus.
.TP 8
.B chg_random
Change mascot random.
.TP 8
.B chg_random_all
Change mascot random with all menus.
.TP 8
.B start_move
Push mascot little. Start swinging if mascot was stopping.
.TP 8
.B sound(\fIfname1,...\fP)
Play sound file continue.
.TP 8
.B snd_start
Play starting sound.
.TP 8
.B snd_click
Play clicking sound.
.TP 8
.B snd_end
Play ending sound.
.TP 8
.B snd_mail
Play mail arriving sound.
.TP 8
.B system(\fIcmdline\fP)
Execute extern command.
.TP 8
.B chg_param(\fIparam1,dat1,..\fP)
Change parameter.
.RS 8
.TP 5
grav
Gravity
.TP 5
dump
Damping coefficient.
.TP 5
mag
Magnify
.TP 5
clen
Chain length
.RE
.TP 8
.B bell(\fIparam\fP)
Beep Bell. This is XBell and no related USE_SOUND option 
on compiling. \fIparam\fP 's range: from -100 to 100
refer manual of xset.
.TP 8
.B showbiff
Show arrived mail's list.

.SH RESOURCES
.I XMascot
can use
.B X Toolkit
standatrd resource and belows:

.TP 8
.B verbose (\fPclass \fBVerbose)
Verbose mode.
.TP 8
.B gravity (\fPclass \fBGravity)
Set Gravity.
.TP 8
.B chainLen (\fPclass \fBChainLen)
Set Chain Length.
.TP 8
.B dampCoeff (\fPclass \fBDampCoeff)
Set damping coefficient.
.TP 8
.B degree (\fPclass \fBDegree)
Set starting degree.
.TP 8
.B magnifyBase (\fPclass \fBMagnifyBase)
Set magnify for All mascots.
.TP 8
.B action (\fPclass \fBAction)
Set default actions.
.TP 8
.B search (\fPclass \fBSearch)
Set default search-path.
.TP 8
.B pinPattern (\fPclass \fBPattern)
Set Pin's graphics pattern.
.TP 8
.B pcol0 (\fPclass \fBCol0)
Set Pin's transparent color.(INDEX)
.TP 8
.B prgb0 (\fPclass \fBRgb0)
Set Pin's transparent color.(RGB)
.TP 8
.B chainNum (\fPclass \fBChainNum)
Set chain's number.
.TP 8
.B chainPattern (\fPclass \fBPattern)
Set chain's graphics pattern.
.TP 8
.B ccol0 (\fPclass \fBCol0)
Set chain's transparent color.(INDEX)
.TP 8
.B crgb0 (\fPclass \fBRgb0)
Set chain's transparent color.(RGB)
.TP 8
.B random (\fPclass \fBRandom)
Change mascot random.
.TP 8
.B changeTime (\fPclass \fBInterval)
Set a interval to change mascot.
.TP 8
.B allMenu (\fPclass \fBAllMenu)
Mascot changing effects to all menu.
.TP 8
.B mascotNo (\fPclass \fBMascotNo)
Set startup mascot No.
.TP 8
.B menuNo (\fPclass \fBMenuNo)
Set startup menu No.
.TP 8
.B shadow (\fPclass \fBShadow)
Set shadow's width.
0 means no shadow.

.PP
Biff RESOURCES

.TP 8
.B biff (\fPclass \fBBiff)
biff feature ON/OFF
.TP 8
.B biffOnce (\fPclass \fBBiffOnce)
biff actions only Mail first comes.
.TP 8
.B update (\fPclass \fB XtCInterval)
Specifies the frequency to check mail's arriving.
.TP 8
.B biffCmd (\fPclass \fBBiffCmd)
Set a command to check mail comes.
.TP 8
.B biffAction (\fPclass \fBBiffAction)
Set default biff actions.
.TP 8
.B biffPattern (\fPclass \fBPattern)
Set graphics pattern of Mail coming mark.
.TP 8
.B bcol0 (\fPclass \fBCol0)
Set transparent color of biff mark.(INDEX)
.TP 8
.B brgb0 (\fPclass \fBRgb0)
Set transparent color of biff mark.(RGB)
.TP 8
.B biffFilter (\fPclass \fBBiffFilter)
Set fillter command for Coming mail's list.
.TP 8
.B biffPopdown (\fPclass \fB XtCInterval)
Set auto-popdown time of Mail's list.
(Negative Value:Don't popdown automatic. 0:Never Popup)
.TP 8
.B youbin (\fPclass \fB Youbin)
Set if use YOUBIN command or not.
.TP 8
.B server (\fPclass \fB Server)
Set YOUBIN servername

.PP
SOUNDs RESOURCES

.TP 8
.B soundCommand (\fPclass \fBSoundCommand)
Set SOUND's play command.

.PP
Menu's RESOURCES

Menu's resource start after
.B menu?.masDat?...
Fill ?, Menu NUMBER and Mascot NUMBER.

.PP
like this:
menu0.masDat0.title: My Mascot

.TP 8
.B menusNum (\fPclass \fBMenusNum)
Set menu set's number.
.TP 8
.B numsOfMenu (\fPclass \fBNumsOfMenu)
Set Mascot No on a menu.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.title (\fPclass \fBTitle)
Set Mascot's name.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.filename (\fPclass \fBPatterne)
Set Mascot pattern's filename.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.col0 (\fPclass \fBCol0)
Set Mascot's transparent color.(INDEX)
.TP 8
.B masDat?.rgb0 (\fPclass \fBRgb0)
Set Mascot's transparent color.(RGB)
.TP 8
.B masDat?.magnify (\fPclass \fBMagnify)
Set Mascot's magnify.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.startSnd (\fPclass \fBStartSnd)
Set Mascot's starting sound.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.clickSnd (\fPclass \fBClickSnd)
Set Mascot's clicking sound.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.endSnd (\fPclass \fBEndSnd)
Set Mascot's ending sound.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.mailSnd (\fPclass \fBMailSnd)
Set Mascot's mail arriving sound.
.TP 8
.B masDat?.biffPos (\fPclass \fBBiffPos)
Set Mail mark's position.

.SH FILES
.TP 20
$HOME/.xmascotrc
Save alarm time etc.

.SH BUGS
Parameter's range isn't checked.

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
Go Watanabe(Toyohashi Univ. of Tech. Computer Club) Main Programmer

Tsuyoshi Iida(TUT Computer Club) Graphics Loader Unit, etc.

Yasuhito Makino(TUT Computer Club) Mascot design.

HomePage http://cclub.tutcc.tut.ac.jp/xmascot/
